# ThesisFinalDegree

Some neuronal circuits in the brain undergo transitions between periods of high neural firing (UP state) and periods of generalized quiescence (DOWN state) which follow each other in a synchronized manner. This UP and DOWN dynamics has been widely observed in cortical activity. Several theoretical models reproducing this rhythmic pattern are based on the balance between excitatory (E) and inhibitory (I) populations of neurons. 

Short-term synaptic plasticity (STP) is a form of activity-dependent modulation of synaptic efficacy highly abundant in cortical synapses. This phenomenon can contribute either to weakening, in the form of short-term depression (STD), or enhancement, in the case of short-term facilitation (STF), of synaptic connections. The UP and DOWN dynamics can be altered by STP giving rise to diverse neural patterns. Although numerous mathematical models have been proposed to explain the mechanisms responsible for the different types of STP, the functional role it has on network dynamics remains less clearly understood.

Here, we build upon a bio-inspired computational model for an Excitatory-Inhibitory (EI) network of spiking neurons, introduced in [1,2], that simulates $V_1$ cortical activity under the effects of STP. When no STP is considered, the network presents synchronized alternation between UP and DOWN states, however, different network dynamics emerge depending on the type and strength of STP under consideration. In this work, we intend to build a minimal model that reproduces the firing rate of both populations under the effects of only STD or STF, and under the interplay of both mechanisms. Our focus lies in understanding the underlying mechanisms driving the transitions between the different states induced by STP.

The rate model we propose is able to reproduce the firing-rate dynamics of both populations, excitatory (E) and inhibitory (I), when no plasticity is considered. Our study presents neural adaptation as responsible for the transitions between UP and DOWN states and characterizes the bifurcations that the system undergoes to produce this alternation. 

In addition, we add STP to our rate model. When STD alone is considered, the model accurately depicts the network dynamics, smoothly switching from UP and DOWN states to an asynchronous activity regime when the level of depression is increased. Our study explains the appearance of asynchronous activity as a result of the system remaining trapped in a bifurcation due to depression dynamics. When only STF is considered, our model qualitatively recreates the network dynamics, abruptly transitioning from a silent state to a pattern of UP and DOWN transitions when the level of facilitation is increased. We further deepen our study by integrating the interplay between STD and STF into both the network and the rate model. Our simulations reveal the existence of three distinct activity states: (1) UP and DOWN states, (2) asynchronous activity regime, and (3) silent state. These states depend both on the level of depression and facilitation experienced by the network, and the steady-state of the probability of release for the facilitation.

[1] Compte, A., Sanchez-Vives, M. V., McCormick, D. A., & Wang, X. J. (2003). Cellular and network mechanisms of slow oscillatory activity (< 1 Hz) and wave propagations in a cortical network model. Journal of neurophysiology, 89(5), 2707-2725.

[2] Vich, C., Giossi, C., Massobrio, P., & Guillamon, A. (2023). Effects of short-term plasticity in UP-DOWN cortical dynamics. Communications in Nonlinear Science and Numerical Simulation, 121, 107207