STDFnetwork implemented in Julia

This simulation generates one unique file containing all the data generated by the execution. Some parameters are necessary to understand the data stored in the files, such as:

    * nNeurons: Represents the number of neurons considered for the simulation.

    * neq: Number of equations needed to describe one neuronal model.

    * nvar: Total number of equations needed to describe the network Nxneq.

    * N: number of time steps considered to integrate the network (t_f-t_0)/h.

The file is named fDDnumber_fFFnumber.mat where Dnumber and Fnumber represent the depression and facilitation factor, respectively. The following variables are saved inside this main file:

    (1) ti: Of size N. Represents the time of the simulation. Contains the timesteps from t0 to tf with a discretization h.

    (2) wi: Of size Nxnvar containing the time evolution of all the variables of the neurons in the network.

    (3) pRelAMPA: Of size NxnNeurons, containing the time evolution of the probability of release associated to the AMPA neurotransmitter in the case of depression.

    (4) pRelNMDA: Of size NxnNeurons, containing the time evolution of the probability of release associated to the NMDA neurotransmitter in the case of depression.

    (5) pRelGABA: Of size NxnNeurons, containing the time evolution of the probability of release associated to the GABA neurotransmitter in the case of depression.

    (6) pRel_stfAMPA: Of size NxnNeurons, containing the time evolution of the probability of release associated to the AMPA neurotransmitter in the case of facilitation.

    (7) pRel_stfNMDA: Of size NxnNeurons, containing the time evolution of the probability of release associated to the NMDA neurotransmitter in the case of facilitation.
    
    (8) pRel_stfGABA: Of size NxnNeurons, containing the time evolution of the probability of release associated to the GABA neurotransmitter in the case of facilitation.
